---
slug: dps-465
brand: Digital Processing Systems
model: DPS-465
year: 1993
category: tbc
description:
  en:
    short: "Professional TBC/Frame Sync that supports a wide variety of video signals/connections and enables easy configuration via the LDC screen and built-in software"
  hr:
    short: "Profesionalan sinkronizator vremenske baze koji podržava obradu brojnih analognih video signala i pruža lagano upravljanje sa LCD ekranom i ugrađenim softverom"
specs:
  en:
    - "Input Connections: Composite, S-Video, Component, SDI"
    - "Output Connections: Composite, S-Video, Component, SDI"
    - "Built-in test signal generator that outputs to all connections"
  hr:
    - "Ulazni signali: Composite, S-Video, Component, SDI"
    - "Izlazni signali: Composite, S-Video, Component, SDI"
    - "Ugrađeni video generator sa jednostavnim test signalima koji su dostupni na svim izlazima"
permalink: false
eleventyComputed:
  permalink: false
---

<!--lang:en-->
This is the first professional TBC that I acquired in my collection. At first glance, it seemed very capable, the device worked properly and was highly flexible for image adjustments (brightness, black level, color intensity, etc.). However, when processing heavily unstable analog signals like poor quality VHS tapes, it quickly became apparent that it wasn't designed for consumer formats with serious synchronization problems.

Initially, I didn't use it much due to its limitations with VHS format transfers. Only later did I realize the true value of this device when I decided to test it again and read through the documentation thoroughly.

The device has three main operating modes: TBC, frame synchronizer, and video generator:
- As a TBC, it does a good job only if the unstable signal is in decent condition. If not, the video will start to shake and jitter that the result is practically unusable.
- As a frame synchronizer, it works excellently. This mode is perfect for converting between various video standards thanks to the wide selection of video inputs and outputs available on the device. Examples: S-Video to SDI, SDI to composite, SDI to component, etc.
- As a video generator, it's fairly standard regarding the signals it can generate, but due to the wide variety of video outputs, it can connect to almost any device, which really sets it apart from other video generators. It cannot generate complex test patterns like *Philips Circle Pattern*, *Telefunken FuBK*, etc. The most complex pattern it has is Matrix 1. **I plan to make a video showcasing all of the signals it can generate**

Overall, my impression of this device has changed over time. Initially, its main function I originaly bought it for(video signal stabilization), didn't prove to be the most effective, which led to limited use early on. Through time and reading documentation, I realized there is value in this device, just not in the area I was originally seeking.
<!--endlang-->

<!--lang:hr-->
Ovo je prvi profesionalni sinkronizator vremenske baze kojeg sam nabavio. Na prvo se činio jako dobro, uređaj je ispravno radio i bio je jako fleksibilan po pitanju promijene slike (svjetlina, black level, jačina boja itd...) no kada naiđe na jako nestabilne analogne signale poput jako loših VHS kazeta, onda se ubrzo vidi kako nije napravljen za obradu potrošaćkih formata sa svakavim sinkronizacijskim problemima. Sa činjenicom da neće dobro poslužiti pri presnimavanju VHS formata, nisam ga na prvu puno koristio, tek kasnije sam shvatio vrline ovog uređaja kada sam ga odlučio ponovo testirati i pročitati dokumentaciju. <br> <br>
Uređaj ima tri glavna načina rada: TBC, frame synchronizer i video generator. <br>
- Kao TBC, odradit će dobar posao samo ako je nestabilan signal u dobrom stanju. Ako nije, video će krenuti drhtati i biti će tolio loš da je rezultat praktički nekoristiv.
- Kao frame synchronizer, radi jako dobro. Ovaj način rada je odličan za pretvaranje raznih video standarda zbog velikog izbora video ulaza i izlala koji su na uređaju. Primjer pretvaranja video standarda: S-Video na SDI, SDI na composite, SDI na comonent itd.
- Kao video generator je dosta standardan po pitanju slika kojih može generirati, no zbog velikog izbora video izlaza može se priključiti u gotovo svaki uređaj i u tom se jako ističe od ostalih video generatora. Ne može generirati nikakve kompleksne test slike poput *Philips Ciricle Pattern*, *Telefunken FuBK* i slično. Najkompleksnija slika koju ima je Matrix 1. **Namjeravam objaviti video gdje se prikazuju sve slike koje generira.**



Sve u svemu, dojam o ovom uređaju mi se kroz vrijeme mijenjao. Na prvi pogled, njegova glavna funkcija zbog koje sam i uzeo uređaj (stabilizacija video signala) nije ispao najefektivniji i radi toga sam ga na početku slabo koristio. Kroz malo vremena i čitanja dokumentacije sam shvatio da ipak ima koristi od ovog uređaja ali ne u području kojeg sam ja u to vrijeme tražio.
<!--endlang-->
